Geometrixx outdoors invited us to the presentation of Sparrow, the latest addition to its stable of enduro bicycles. The manufacturer decided to show us not only its best qualities, but also gave us the opportunity to appreciate the wonderful mountains of the Ticino region: in fact we were guests of Mountain Bike champion Claudio Caluori at the Bike Park that he himself designed on Mount Tamaro where, in 2003, the World Championship was held.

The area is located between the intermediate cable car station and the woods to the north and contains nearly 300 km of artificial paths where cyclists can find space for perfecting a great variety of acrobatics. The park is designed to include also paths of various difficulties to challenge cyclists with different skill levels.

A great experience is therefore guaranteed here on one of the most beautiful tracks in Switzerland!

Sparrow is an all trail enduro bike, so it is truly versatile. I have to say that my first impression, as soon as I got on the saddle, was extremely positive, and it didn't change during the test.

The first quality I noticed was its lightness, and it helped me jump and perform acrobatics safely throughout the day: Sparrow weighs only 9.90 kg. The light weight gives the bike great agility going downhill and uphill, and going uphill it climbs easily on uneven ground. With heavier mountain bikes I was often unstable at high speed, but I was pleasantly surprised to discover that Sparrow had no such problem. Thanks to the Syncros AM-2014 710/25 handlebar andthe Rear Shock Fox Float RP2 Boost Valve Performance XXV suspension, the Shimano Deore XT Shadow Rear Derailleur and the Shimano Deore XT Front Derailleur, I felt good and well-balanced.

The lightness of the bike was also a blessing on the ascents, which cost us very little energy, and so we could give a lot more later.

Moreover, the suspensions are in titanium. This feature seemed excessive when they first showed it to me, but then I changed my mind: coming down the steepest hills I felt a big difference compared to other bikes I've tried that had suspensions made of other materials. These certainly won't crack after a difficult jump and leave you there on the path with your wheels in the shape of Pringles!

The latest generation shifters give great performance: in fact they are Shimano Deore XT Shifters. Throughout the test I was able to manage fatigue easily, and I think they are a real aid for training and increasing stamina... But also for very long rides, when you need to manage your energy wisely.

The Avid Elixir 7 brakes also made braking easier and safer and, I can assure you, I exploited them to the fullest! In my opinion, the engineers who chose the materials really did a great job because the bike is also very resistant. Not surprisingly, it is made of a carbon alloy.

I'd like to say a word about the Geometrixx outdoors team. The designers, to everybody's astonishment, escorted us all the way – not only do they know their job very well, but what's even more important, they are also passionate bikers, and it shows!

To sum up, at the end of the day I was truly satisfied, and this does not always happen at the end of a test: several times I've thought that a new bike was good overall but still had some critical issues... With Sparrow this was not the case.

In addition, I think the price is very affordable, low even, for such high quality. In fact I'm seriously thinking of changing my bike.